Lim-Plugin-Orr - OpenDNSSEC Redundancy Robot

ABOUT

Orr can be configured to manage DNS, OpenDNSSEC and SoftHSM plugins in various
ways to create a redundant DNSSEC system. For example you can configure Orr to
setup a backup/failover system or make a signing cluster that will load balance
the work.

For available RPC calls and CLI commands please see:

	perldoc Lim::Plugin::Orr

ARCHITECTURE

These are the components within Orr and a description on what they do.

  Lim::Plugin::Orr::Server
    The main RPC component, it starts ClusterManagers and manage the database
    containing all configurations.

  Lim::Plugin::Orr::Server::DB
    The main database layer, it handles the database connection, creation
    and upgrade.

  Lim::Plugin::Orr::Server::NodeWatcher
    The main node logic component, it starts watchers to manage the nodes and
    synchronize data between them. Used mainly by the ClusterManager.

  Lim::Plugin::Orr::Server::Node
    A node communication component, it simplifies communication with all
    the different plugins on the nodes. Used mainly by the NodeWatcher.

  Lim::Plugin::Orr::Server::ClusterManager
    The main cluster logic component, it will feed the NodeWatcher what it
    needs to do with the nodes.

  Lim::Plugin::Orr::Server::ZoneInput
    Component to gather the zone data/content from other external sources.

CLUSTER MODES

  BACKUP
    A multi-node setup where the information is backed up onto SECONDARY nodes
    and a manual switch is needed if the PRIMARY node fails.
    All nodes in both modes are active, running and processing zones.

  FAILOVER
    A multi-node setup where the information is backed up onto SECONDARY nodes
    and an automatic switch is performed if the PRIMARY node fails, upgrading
    a SECONDARY node to PRIMARY and downgrading the PRIMARY to SECONDARY.
    All nodes in both modes are active, running and processing zones.

  BALANCE
    A multi-node setup where the information is balanced over the nodes and is
    backed up across additional nodes by a given ratio. The nodes mode has no
    significance in this mode.
    Nodes with backed up information are not actively processing the backed up
    zone information.
    Upon a node failure, the active zones on that node will become active on
    one of the backed up nodes and then balanced out again to the configured
    ratio.

CLUSTER STATES

  (RE)INITIALIZING
    The first state of a cluster and it happens when you first start a cluster,
    when a configuration change has been made on a cluster, when a cluster is
    recovering from DEGRADED state or brought back from a FAILURE/DISABLED
    state.
    For example this state will (re)initialize all configuration on all nodes,
    check for updated zone content and push that out.

  OPERATIONAL
    This is the state when everything is up and running as it should. It will
    continuously check for zone content updates, push that out if there are
    updates, manager ZSK/KSK synchronization/rollovers and push signed zone
    contents to configured outputs.

  DEGRADED
    This state is much like OPERATIONAL but part of the cluster is not working
    as it should but enough is working to continue. This can happen if a node
    can't be reached or is failing.

  FAILURE
    This is a serious and fatal state, something happened so that the cluster
    can not continue and has stopped all processing.
    User intervention is needed at this state since the cluster can not repair
    it self.

  DISALBED
    This indicates that the cluster is disabled.
    Can only be set through manual actions.

NODE MODES

  PRIMARY
    The primary node, considered as master. There SHOULD only be one.

  SECONDARY
    The secondary node, considered as slave/backup. There SHOULD at least be
    one.

NODE STATES

  UNKNOWN
    This is the first state of a node before anything is known about the node.

  OFFLINE
    Indicates that the node is not online.

  ONLINE
    Indicates that the node is online and operational.

  FAILURE
    Indicates that the node has failed and all processing for this node has
    stopped.
    User intervention is needed at this state.

  STANDBY
    Indicates that a node has been in OFFLINE or FAILURE state but is now
    reachable again but has not been included back into the cluster or is just
    standing by for redundancy in case another node fails.

  DISABLED
    Indicates that the node is disabled and will not be used in the cluster.
    Can only be set through manual actions.

INSTALLATION

To install this module, run the following commands:

	perl Makefile.PL
	make
	make test
	make install

SUPPORT AND DOCUMENTATION

After installing, you can find documentation for this module with the
perldoc command.

    perldoc Lim::Plugin::Orr

You can also look for information at:

    Issue tracker (report bugs here)
        http://github.com/jelu/lim-plugin-orr/issues

    GIT repository
        http://github.com/jelu/lim-plugin-orr


LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013 Jerry Lundström

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See http://dev.perl.org/licenses/ for more information.

